Taken from: https://www.udemy.com/course/fusion-360-complete-course

4:
Coordinates
X Y Z (always in that order!)


- Sketch > Extrude > Woah you can extrude with an ange and do hollow extrudes!

- Revolve command: Very handy for anything circular, but you can also use it to create things in 180, 90, 45 degrees or any other stuff
I think you can use this to create a hollow bell-like thing that could be a prototype for the 2fiddy valve spring compressor

- Loft command: joins 2 sketches in 2 offset planes, noice! Makes like a funnel, so to speak
Easy to modify 2 circle sketches and plane offsets than tapper angles

When loft really comes into its own is when you're using different planes!

With loft you could create a vase, noice.

- Sweep: Handy for a handrail or pipe!
Ah you can create some lines and then attach a circle to the end of the line and create a tube
Not something you use a lot
Good for doing a beading at the edge of an object


--- Sketching!
01:
- Create a new component rather than the main project. Avoid the default one
- Ohh you can turn on and off the visibility of your origin plane, might be handy if you ever go looking for it!
- A plane can be any flat surface on existing geometry!

Fully constrained and locked sketches are very important!
Work simetrically around the origin if you can 
Center rectangle is bette practice than just rectangle

02:
Constrains lock your sketch in place
There's a parallel symbol/constraint on a rectangle!
Oooo a rectangle has an angle constrain!

03:
The horizontal/vertical constraint is very handy and encouraged
The perpendicular and parallel constrains also work!
You want the object to be black so it is fully constrained

04:
Coincident makes a point touch a line
Ooooo a trim command! Noice!
Tangential smoothes a line into a coming curve, noice!
Equal lenght contraint is also noice
Fix/Unfix fixes a point of the sketch somewhere (you don't need to fix it to 0/0)
Oooo midpoint puts a point in the middle of a line! Noice! Damn midpoint is meganice
Concentric constrains one circle in the middle of another one! Whichever one you select first is the one that stays in position
Symmetry constraint seems interesting but difficult to keep track of -- it made two angles symetrical. You might need to investigate more!

05:
Create your shape, constrain it, dimension it, and when the lines are back then all's good and you can finish your sketch
Spline: Interesting curved lines
Mirror: Allows you to pick a shape, put a line around it and mirror it. These 2 shapes are then constrained to each other!
Slots: Noice! Creates a slot like shape. 2 half circles joined by lines, resembles your mouthwas bottle
Splined curve seems noice too, creates a variable curve in a line
Point: Like a centerpunch in a place where you want to drill a hole. It allows you dimension to it, maybe you want to do something with it later
Text! There is text! Noice!
Oooh you can sketch (text) on an existing 3d surface!

06:
Oh patterns! Examples are nice but it seems like an hexagon pattern would be more complicated
Get your sketches fully constrained, fully dimentioned, and fully locked. With time it becomes second nature!

--- Fillets and Chamfers!
01:
Ooooh you can extrude to object and go to an opposite face!
Fillet smoothes edges! So noice! You can also do inside fillets, meganice!
Chamfer creates straight rounded edges at a 45 angle, noice. Chamfer can also have different distances for corners
You can also fillet your newly created chamfered edges, noice
You can also chamfer and fillet round edges from circles, cool!
OOOOOOOOH YOU have fillet and chamfers on your sketch!1!!one
Author's preference: Extrude basic square, adds chamfers later (chamfers on sketches can make them cumbersome to alter)

02: Creating holes
Fusion has a command to create holes, you don't need to sketch and extrude every time
Create a sketch with a point and you can create the hole on the point, neat
Points with holes works out noicely

03: Working with patterns
Wew to create a patter from a feature: select feature > click pattern
There are many ways to create holes (sketch, holes and pattern)
You can also create a rectangular pattern at an angle with an angled construction line

04: Working with patterns 02
Circular pattern is neat!
Ohh you can use project to project an object from another sketch!
Select Feature and then the path and you're good to go!
Pattern on a path really comes together if have a curved line along something!


-- Creating your first part: A disk brake!
- Project and offset were mega handy before extruding into the hub!
- Extrude to object with 5mm offset! Noice!
- Oh wow you can select the inner part of a hole as the axis for something else, neat


-- More modeling techniques!
01: Press pull is cool but it doens't tell you what it does and you can't edit it
Its best to find your original extrusions and change them. Be careful with them!

02: Shell command
Woah noice! Makes a box very easily!
Hollows things out with a thickness for the wall
Really nice to use with squigly lines to create a vase!
Handy for when you want hollow things for 3d printing -- would've been a lot of work to create something hollow with the revolve command

03: More modifying tools
Draft command: Changes the side of something and makes them ramp line!
Scale: Scales some object up or down
Offset face: If you need it can come very handy, similar to press pull, but do things properly if you have a choice!

04: More modifying toosl 2
Replace face: Levels a face with another one
offset face: separates a face into smaller ones, noice
Split body: Same deals, splits a body along a face or something like that that, if you have the design history, go back to the sketch

05: Move & copy
Moves and object around or creates a copy of it. Seems like it could be interesting to create some weird patterns. Copying might be more useful than moving

06: Boolean commands
Combine joins 2 objects into 1 and it lets you chose which object cuts into the other one (target and tool bodies, really neat)

--- Model management!
01: Applying materials
You can modify > appearance to apply a material to your object to make it look more realistic
The software knows a bunch of mechanical properties of the types of materials you apply to an object, noice
Utilities > Manage materials
You can add physical material or appearance to your object. One is just how it looks, other can help you made do simulations

02: Components, bodies and assemblies
A project is usually divided between components and bodies and assembles
Author went over the bike frame example on how bodies are inside a component and... I forgot the rest. But looks like we'll get to practice!

03: Starting a project correctly
Hmm split your parts into components, pretty much. Hard to take notes on this one.

--- Designing a workbench in fusion 360!
01: 
Paste copies and item, but if you edit the original one, the copy changes
Paste new makes a new independent copy!

02: 
Joining pieces was mega cool! I think it requires some practice though
You could've mirrored too but you lose your joints and it would've all come apart!

--- Working with Joints
01:
Woah you can trim lines on a sketch to create a |_| shape with two rectangles, how mega neat!
"Set current view as front" is really neat, changes a part of the design to be the front!
Position > Revert reverts it back to the captured position, neat

02:
Oh you can project a hole and extrude the projection negatively elsewhere!
You can use a tangent plane to put a plane on a cilinder, noice!

03:
OH LORD JOINTS CAN HAVE MOTIONS
JOINT > MOTION > REVOLUTE > OMG IT SPINS1!1!1ONE

04
Joints became hard to follow with the spinning part of the vice not being very clear on the lesson, give this a retry sometime.

-- Inserting objects
01:
Neat you can add decals!
Oooh you can insert a canvas to use it as a rough template (ex: add picture and start sketching on top of it)
Ooohh this would be great for bloste!
Insert mesh means you can get an STL and insert it in your model, noice

02:
You can insert ready-made bolts and nuts from McMaster Carr, neat

03:
You can presspull to change the McMaster Carr parts

04:
Joints only work with components (good info!)
Some McMaster Carr components come with several bodies, neat


--- 12: Outputting your designs
01: How to create a technical drawing
Design > Drawing > From design
Initial scale is too small! I went for 1:2 scale
Once you place it in the drawing sheet, you can right click > edit
Ooooooh projected view adds the view to the place you go with the mouse!
Ok so we have one big view of the thing but no individual piece view, that comes next!

02:

--- 13: Parametric design
01:
Parametric modeling means you're creating your design on a series of parameters!
Oooh the parameters of the operations that you do are saved under "model parameters", neat!
Neat you can click and edit those parameters! Didn't know that, cool
These are hard to keep track though

02:
Oooh but we can use user parameters!
You can create easily identifiable terms that make it easy to change your model
You can refer a parameter in another parameter and do things like multiply it by two (ex: lenght = widht * 2)

03:
OOOh you can use offset to offset something from something else! (ex: concentric circles)
Off topic but you can click on advanced appearance for plastic and make it red, how cool

04:
Ooo book case design!
We can make a book case with different heights and shelve numbers depending on parameters
Assembled the book case with joints. I always struggle to get joints right, this has some good examples!

05:
Translated the parameters entered add hoc to user parameters and changed the main dimmensions of the book case to match those!
Aaaaah join might be better than move as it keeps things together when you change the parameters!
Backboard thickness might not change so yeah it makes sense to keep a numerican value in there

06:
Shelves!

07:
A rectangular pattern for the shelves with the void height, clever!
You can use "supress" under rectangular pattern to supress certain items (like something on the edges)

08:
Uh oh, a drawing for manufacturing
Even if you don't plan on manufacturing your item, dimensioning it seems like a nice way to review your design and correct issues

09:
Oh it still things a few things on my drawing are made of steel
Good practive: Just label all the things just in case
Another sheet but I can't follow this part as I don't have a commercial license

YOUR OWN NOTES
Hexagon patterns: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AFZVNVvmXJ4&ab_channel=Kristian_Laholm
Fusion 360 tutorials: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvjX0x1uNNLEfZGC6zpW68C-0X6JzLQHE
Angled hole through a plane: https://youtu.be/NdKWh8aiYME
To create a hole at 45 degree on an edge: Create an angled plane!

For your printer it seems the hexagon hole size for a 5mm diameter hexagon is 5.35


Ooooh you can create a "quartershelf component" in your hexagon square thingy and copy and paste it to another components!
