
-- Retrieved on March/2019

Senior Operations Engineer
at CloudBees (View all jobs)
Remote - Western Europe
Our Customers Develop Software at the Speed of Ideas

CloudBees is the hub of enterprise Jenkins and DevOps, providing companies with smarter solutions for accelerating the development and delivery of the software that fuels their business.

We’ve taken Jenkins – the most popular, trusted platform for automated software delivery in use by over 1,000,000 DevOps professionals around the world – and added enterprise-grade security, scalability, manageability and expert-level support. With CloudBees Jenkins Enterprise, our customers build, test and deploy business-critical software with confidence. By making the development and delivery process more productive, manageable and hassle-free, CloudBees puts companies on the fastest path to transforming their great ideas into great software, so it can start making an impact sooner.

To support the delivery of the CloudBees engineering projects - the Operations team designs, deploys and manages a variety of software systems and the related AWS infrastructure that underpins this software.

CloudBees has an Operations team that is available around the clock (in their respective time zones!) to deliver a highly available service to our growing engineering teams.

One of your first tasks will be to integrate with the engineering teams to deliver the infrastructure required to deploy their projects - “Embedded Ops” - this role helps deliver infrastructure that meets the Engineering project’s needs while conforming to Operations guidelines for long term maintenance and reliability.

What You'll Do

Collaborate with existing project operations and CloudBees operations team members to ensure solutions fit into exists patterns.
Design, development, integration, testing and delivery of infrastructure for engineering teams.
Ongoing operational design and implementation work CloudBees infrastructure
Handle operational incidents from initiation to resolution
Drive architecture for major feature areas and drive decisions regarding key technologies
Troubleshoot and debug software and infrastructural components including application of root cause analysis to find faults.
Contribute fixes and enhancements to the open source projects
Tuning of monitoring, system design and alerting to reduce alert quantity, increase alert quality and ultimately eliminate alert fatigue.
Assist with escalated support incidents
Report to the CloudBees IT Operations Manager on status of system faults and deliverables
Ability to follow processes and complete work within a change controlled environment

What the Role Requires

Self-motivated and driven personality
Excellent problem solving and communication skills
Ability to operate independently and ask questions when stuck
Well-rounded experience programming in various languages and domains
Linux systems administration experience
Experience with cloud-based operations (e.g. AWS,  Azure, GCP)
Familiarity with the "modern Ops stack", e.g. monitoring, alerting, cloud-based provisioning, Docker.
Experience/understanding of configuration management tools
Experience/familiarity with modern software engineering practices: code reviews, unit/acceptance testing, source control, etc.
Experience with cluster orchestration tools (e.g. Cloud Formation / k8s / ECS / Terraform / etc)
Experience with continuous integration / continuous delivery tools (Jenkins / Bamboo / TeamCity etc)

What You’ll Get

A highly competitive benefits and vacation package
The opportunity to work for one of the fastest growing companies with some of the most talented people in the industry
Cool team outings (To Málaga for instance!)
Fun, Hardworking, and Casual Environment
Endless Growth Opportunities