

----- STOPPED ON PAGE 30

CHAPTER 1

THE MAIN PURPOSE of Kubernetes is container orchestration. It could be docker, but it could also be other container technologies. Sounds interesting!

KUBERNETES CONCEPTS

CLUSTER
A collection of hosts, storage and networking resources that kubernetes uses to run workloads on.

NODE
A single host, either physical or virtual. Pods run on nodes.

MASTER
The control host for Kubernetes.

POD
A unit of work in Kubernetes. Each pod contains one or more containers.

LABEL
Key-value objects that are used to group together a set of objects. Often used on pods. Other concepts hang on the use of labels.

ANNOTATION
Text metadata that can be associated to a given object.

LABEL SELECTOR
Used to select objects based on their labels. Operators are used with these.

REPLICATION CONTROLLER AND REPLICA SET
Replication controllers and replica sets manage a group of pods identified by a label selector. These can spawn, kill or do other operations to pods.

SERVICE
Used to expose some functionality to users or other services. Usually encompasses a group of pods identified by a label.

VOLUME
Persistent storage object/unit that can be shared in between multiple pods. There are multiple volume types.

STATEFULSET
StatefulSet ensures that a given number of pods with unique identifiers are running at a given time. It sits in the middle of the pets vs cattle server analogy. TODO: Review this (Confusing!)

SECRET
Small objects that contain sensitive data such as credentials and tokens.

NAME
Object identifier, other than it's UID.

NAMESPACE
A virtual cluster. Namespaces are isolated from each other.


KUBERNETES ARCHITECTURE

DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS PATTERN
To function properly, distributed systems need to be designed correctly. Here are some design patterns.

SIDECAR PATTERN
This pattern is about co-locating another container in a pod in addition to our main application container. A good example is a central logging agent.

AMBASSADOR PATTERN
This pattern is about representing a remote service as if it were a local one. A good example is a redis cluster with a master for writes (remote) and a replica for read (local, in your kubernetes pod)

ADAPTER PATTERN
The book reffers to this one as a auxiliary container that standardizes the output from the main app. Or something that processes and ships data from the main app.

MULTI-NODE PATTERNS
Book says: Single-node patterns are supported by Kubernetes via pods. Multi-node patterns are not supported directly.
TODO: This is vague. Is clarifying this possible?

KUBERNETES APIS
A list of APIs used by Kubernetes follows:

KUBERTNETES API
The main Kubernetes API. Large.

AUTOSCALING API
Lets you controll the pod autoscaler.

BATCH API
Lets you manage jobs.

KUBERNETES COMPONENTS

MASTER COMPONENTS

API SERVER
The kube API server that exposes the Kubernetes REST API

ETCD
Distributed data store

CONTROLLER MANAGER
Binary that contains various managers. Controls pods, services, endpoints and so on

SCHEDULER
Responsible for scheduling pods into nodes.

DNS
A DNS server is part of a kubernetes master as well.

NODE COMPONENTS

PROXY
Does low level networking operations on each node

KUBELET
The Kubernetes managing software that gets installed on each node. Manages volumes, pods, containers and everything else.


KUBERNETES RUNTIMES
The runtime interface that interfaces with the underlying container service being used, such as docker or rkt.

DOCKER
You should know this one :D. Kubernetes was originally designed to manage Docker, but multi-runtime functionality was built into it afterwards.
A note from the book: Docker Swarm is a direct competitor to Kubernetes. It is simpler to use, but claimed to not be as powerful and mature.

RKT:
A new container manager from CoreOS.

APP CONTAINER:
An old container manager from CoreOS. Appears to be merging into Docker.

RKTNETES
Kubernetes plus the RKT as the runtime engine. Book remarks on RKT not being advised for production usage.

HYPER CONTAINERS
HYPERNETES
Multi-tenant Kubernetes distribution that uses Hyper containers and some OpenStack components for authentication. Looks messy.

The book then goes off on a tangent about CI/CD workflow/environments and how Kubernetes can help. The whole thing is short and badly written for a proper introduction on the subject.


CHAPTER 2
Creating kubernetes clusters.

Install VirtualBox (had that one already)
Install kubectl. Steps described here worked for xubuntu 16.04: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl
Googled "install minikube". Endeded up with this:

curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/v0.28.0/minikube-linux-amd64 && chmod +x minikube && sudo mv minikube /usr/local/bin/

Let's see the versions of Kubernetes we have available:
minikube get-k8s-versions

For practicity, create an alias:
alias mk='minikube'

As of this writing, v1.10.0 seems to be the latest stable version.

mk start --kubernetes-version="v1.10.0"

This create a minukube cluster! Launches vbox vm with boot2docker, creates certificates, sets up networking and runs the local kubernetes cluster on the vm

This kubectl command displays information about the cluster:
kubectl cluster-info

List nodes in the cluster
kubectl get nodes

Let's start up a pod:
kubectl run echo --image=gcr.io/google_containers/echoserver:1.4 --port=8080 deployment "echo" created

Is it there?
kubectl get pods

To expose it as a service
kubectl expose deployment echo --type=NodePort

According to the book, "ports get mapped in the cluster"

To see which IP and port the echo service is using:
minikube ip #Ok, I get the node if my only node in the cluster...

kubectl get service echo

So it'll be the IP from minikube plus the port from the echo service as outputted by kubectl... messy.


